### Model Overview

This model follows a directed search framework in the spirit of [@menzio2010a]. The model incorporates two key sources of heterogeneity: firms differ in their remote-work efficiencies, while workers vary in their skill levels. The key mechanisms in this framework are that workers value the flexibility provided by remote work arrangements, high-skilled workers are more productive and better suited for remote work, and firms treat remote and on-site work as substitutable inputs in their production processes.

**Workers** are characterized by their productivity $h$. They incur disutility from on-site work, which is partially compensated by their wage. We denote by $u(w,\alpha)$ the utility of a worker earning wage $w$ with remote work arrangement $\alpha\in[0,1]$, where $\alpha$ represents the fraction of time working remotely. We assume that utility continuously differentiable, concave and  increasing in consumption $u_{w}(\cdot) > 0$ and in remote work $u_{\alpha}(\cdot) > 0$. We further assume that the marginal rate of substitution between remote work and consumption, $-{u_\alpha\big(w,\alpha\big)}/{u_w\big(w,\alpha\big)}$ is increasing in $\alpha$. This condition means that as workers spend more time working remotely, they place an increasing relative value on additional remote work compared to higher wages. Intuitively, this captures increasing marginal willingness to trade off wage for flexibility: the more accustomed a worker becomes to remote work, the more they value the ability to work remotely even further.  We assume that workers supply their unit of labor inelastically.

**Firms** are characterized by their remote-work efficiency parameter $\psi$, which determines how effectively they can implement remote work arrangements.  The output of a firm-worker match depends on firm remote productivity, worker skill and the fraction of remote work determined by the arrangement $\alpha$.  We asume that $A(h)$,  ($A'(h) > 0$) captures the contribution to output from worker skill $h$. The firm split worker's labor between in-person work and remote work. However, these components aren’t perfectly substitutable, remote work is adjusted by a factor $g(\psi, h)$. The function $g(\psi, h)$ captures the efficiency of remote work, with $g_{\psi}(\psi, h) \geq 0$ indicating that remote work efficiency increases with firm type $\psi$ due to better technology, management practices, or the nature of the occupation. Similarly, $g_{h}(\psi, h) \geq 0$ suggests that remote work efficiency increases with worker skill level due to greater autonomy and technological ability.  The production function of the firm is given by:
$$Y(\alpha \mid \psi, h) = A(h)\left((1 - \alpha) + \alpha g(h,\psi)\right)$$ {#eq-prod}

**Profits** are determined by the difference between the output produced and the wage paid to the worker. Let $x$ denote the total utility level that a working arrangement delivers to the worker, $x$ is derived from both the wage received and the work arrangement (i.e., the fraction of remote work $\alpha$).  Since workers care only about their total utility, the firm is constrained to ensure that the worker obtains at least the utility level $x$. This creates a trade-off for the firm: while offering higher remote work (a larger $\alpha$) may decrease productivity it might also allow the firm to pay a lower wage to meet the utility guarantee. A type $\psi$ firm with a worker of type $h$ chooses $\alpha$ to maximize the following expression: $$\Pi(\alpha \mid \psi, h, x)=\max_{\alpha\in[0,1]}\left\{Y(\alpha \mid \psi, h)-w(\alpha) \:\mid\: x=u(w(\alpha),\alpha)\right\}$$ {#eq-firmProblem}

Since $g(\psi, h)$ captures the adjustment of productivity to remote work in @eq-prod and is heterogeneous across firms and workers, the optimal remote work policy will also be heterogeneous.
